Again, the honourable senator has the better of me in this but let me answer. 
I would hope that those who were directly involved in the 1982 debates would give the Senate the benefit of their views on the most serious question of original intent.  
Under the Constitution, unlike other senators, there is a doctrine of the living tree. 
There is also the doctrine of stare decisis, but the key doctrine in constitutional interpretation is the original intent. 
What was the intent of the signatories to the Constitution at the time?  
I looked at those debates. 
I read some of the material, but not all. 
Based on my examination of the debates and the discussions of the various participants, I came to the conclusion that there was a question in the minds of the drafters. 
They could not, at the time, figure out the extent of inherent aboriginal rights. 
Therefore, they decided to limit, at the time, the definition of aboriginal rights, saying "aboriginal rights, including those related to land claims."  
I was a second-hand observer of all those debates. 
I ask myself why, if Senator Sibbeston is correct, self-government was not added at the time. 
Why, under Charlottetown and Meech, which I opposed, were those issues articulated as a constitutional amendment and why were they ultimately dealt with in the way that they were? 
If I consider original intent and government actions since, on the overwhelming balance of probabilities and the overwhelming evidence I could not come to the conclusion that self-government - undelegated, untrammelled paramountcy - would have been granted to aboriginals. 
I do not think one would have come to that conclusion.  
On the other hand, what are we left with to deal with Senator Sibbeston's concerns about responsible government? 
I believe that there is responsible government in Nunavut and the Yukon, and I agree with everything he said. 
However, if you examine those models of governance, they did not curtail federal power.  
I agree wholeheartedly with everything Senator Sibbeston said. 
Yet, to me this particular model goes beyond the original intent of the drafters. 
Let us hear from others. 
If they believe that the original intent was as the advocates of this bill suggest, let them quote the speeches. 
Senator Sibbeston was very fair. 
He said that this was extension of rights and growing rights, but was it the rights granted at the time and was it the intent?  
It is a fundamental issue. 
I read as much as I could and I regretfully concluded that it was not the original intent.  
The honourable senator raises a number of issues. 
Let me give my personal views because each one of them I have turned over in my mind since I started reading about this issue. 
Let me start with the conservative amendment.  
I do not believe a hoist of six months will do anything. 
I do not believe that there will be time to correct this. 
I believe, from what we have heard, that the current constitutional challenges will be impeded while this matter is abeyance. 
It is not fair to the Nisga'a nor to the residents of British Columbia, and it is not fair for certainty.  
In my view, and I know this seems convoluted, we should let the Senate have its will on this matter, rather than hoist this bill for six months. 
Then if there are those who will choose to attack this bill from a constitutional perspective, that will be the case. 
There is a failsafe within the bill. 
It will be severable. 
The treaty will not go down. 
It will be changed, possibly, or be renegotiated, in part, if in fact the courts come to that decision.  
I am unhappy with the bill because of something that I did not mention in my speech. 
Constitutional approaches to this bill are not permitted by the attorneys general. 
They cannot participate in a constitutional offence, but they can defend it. 
I leave that aside. 
It is regrettable, but I leave it aside.  
I have made my view clear in this respect. 
We understand from the courts of British Columbia that they will not deal with this matter until it is the law. 
The sooner the law exists, the better.  
Former justice Willard Estey gives his approach on the advisory and it is echoed by the honourable senator opposite. 
I do not believe in advisories. 
It is not fair for us to criticize the courts, as we have done, and then turn an issue over to the courts. 
That is why I do not believe in advisories. 
We take our responsibilities here and let the courts, in their independence, take their responsibilities.  
I wish to add to the points made by Senator Sibbeston and Senator Gill's point. 
We face a conundrum. 
Recently, senators had on their desks an analysis of all the actions before all the courts in Canada. 
I am quoting from memory and I may not be correct, but somewhere between 20 and 30 of the full court calendars are clogged with aboriginal claims precisely because of what Senator Sibbeston has suggested. 
We have not been able to come to a constitutionally effective method of government. 
Honourable senators, this is where he and I fairly part company. 
I believe that the existing models, which are illustrated to work well in the Northwest Territories and the Yukon, would continue to work well without an abrogation of federal power. 
Hence, we part company.  
There is a difference.  
If I am wrong, I hope that others will debate these issues later on in third reading.