First, the government has no intention of letting such an accusation against the Chair sit for long on the order paper. 
It is of course not true. 
The government too would like to debate the charge, this motion of non confidence as it was put, in the very near future. 
I do not agree with this accusation, but we will talk about it again, and I am quite prepared to debate it.  
However, I think you should be aware of certain facts. 
As I have said, I do not agree with the accusation at all, but I will debate it when the time comes. 
I think we could do so in the coming days, and I am prepared to initiate discussions with the other House leaders.  
Today had been allotted to one of the opposition parties, not only as a matter of practice, but in keeping with our constitutional conventions of there being a number of opposition days-in this case, seven-before the budget votes to pay our employees' salaries, benefits to Canadians, social benefits and everything else we have to pay are concurred in.  
Pardon me, but a constitutional expert over there is offering us advice on the importance of opposition days and how they operate.  
In the meantime, with the greatest respect for the institution and for the Chair, it is our intention, after I meet with the opposition House leaders, to put this matter on the order paper in order so that it may be debated, so that we may see the end of it. 
Today, however, I would like address the motion by the Conservative Party, this being a day previously allotted to that party. 
No doubt hon. members will recall that I had allotted Monday for it, moreover.  
It will of course differ a great deal. 
I will, however, give it only then, out of respect for the traditions of this House and the way we have to do things.  
In the meantime, I submit that the motion as moved by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister, is perfectly in order, that voting on it ought to follow immediately, that we should carry on our usual work day today, and that a meeting among the House leaders ought to be held, as I have just proposed.  
I think that is the general thrust. 
I would put that in the form of an official motion. 
I seem to note general agreement for that across the way. 
If that is the case and if there is an understanding that would be the case, we would be prepared to withdraw-
I would like to say, as is the custom, that I am pleased to take part in this debate, but it would be an exaggeration, because a parliamentarian cannot be pleased to take part in this kind of debate.  
This is a very serious debate. 
Personally, not only do I see no reason to have such a debate today, but I also think that the Chair has always acted in a proper and totally impartial manner in this House.  
When the member presented this motion to the House, he said that the rights and privileges of all parliamentarians were at stake, as well as democracy itself and the confidence that all members must have in the Speaker. 
I agree with the member, probably only to the extent that the motion concerns the rights and privileges of all members, and also the principles of democracy.  
First, I would like to talk about political objectivity and impartiality. 
I do not intend to review the points that are being disputed but rather to stress the impartiality of the procedure and practices followed by our Speaker. 
In the ruling you issued in March on the point of order raised by the member for Beauharnois-Salaberry regarding motions on amendments relating to Bill C-20, you pointed out that the decision was made, and I quote: 
-from a strictly procedural perspective-it [the decision] was made in accordance with the traditions and practices of this House.  
As for the question of privilege raised by the deputy House leader of the Bloc Quebecois relating to the issue of confidentiality of the information between the legislative counsels of the House and the members of parliament, the Speaker concluded, and I quote: 
-there is no mention of any breach of confidentiality whereby the text of proposed motions of the hon. member or her party has been made known to persons working outside the field of legislative support operations or to other members. 
Confidential information proprietary to the Bloc Quebecois and several of its members remained completely and absolutely confidential.  
Certainly, no one can claim that members of the other political parties received copies of these motions. 
I still do not know what they contain.