Some of us were asked that question recently in another part of the world. 
It seems to us that there is a debate going on at cabinet, so it must have reached cabinet, at least for discussion. 
We all want to know who is winning at the moment; who is ahead. 
Is it the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of National Defence? 
Also, who is speaking for whom?  
I had the honour to attend the United Nations Committee on Disarmament with Prime Minister Trudeau. 
Why is it that every time there is talk of non-proliferation treaties we immediately point fingers at Pakistan and India while remaining silent on the Middle East? 
It is no longer a sin to say publicly that Israel is a nuclear power. 
In the old days, it was a capital sin to even suggest that they had nuclear powers. 
Yet, the Canadian government and our ambassador to the UN persistently refuse to mention four of the non-signatories by pointing out only two; those being Pakistan and India. 
Either mention them all or talk generally about those who have not signed.  
Will the minister report back to us by the end of the week on who is winning at the moment in the cabinet discussions?  
Second, will he kindly ask that when the government mentions non-signatories to the non-proliferation treaty we name all of them? 
I know how embarrassing it is for some to mention them all, but Israel exists and they have contaminated all of the Middle East. 
They brought to the Middle East an arms race that is totally out of line with the principles of Canada, that great peacemaker in the world.  
Would the honourable senator not consider that there should not only be a committee to study this question, but that we could consider a Senate committee travelling across Canada? 
If we pass this bill, we will eliminate the Senate from the discussion process. 
Is a single committee sufficient to study this issue? 
Given the importance of the subject under discussion, would it not be appropriate for this committee to travel across Canada to understand and grasp the scope of this very important bill?  
I always listen with great interest to matters pertaining to the future of our country. 
I am afraid that there is sometimes a lack of sensitivity on what Canada is all about. 
I have seen that for the seven years that I have been in the Senate, and I have seen it often in the House of Commons.  
This is one of the infrequent occasions that we will have to demonstrate why the Senate was created. 
We had a great occasion with regard to a promise made to the people in Newfoundland that their school system would never be touched. 
Democracy obligated us to take away the rights of people who joined Canada in 1949. 
At least we had a long debate. 
I strongly urged the Senate to go to Newfoundland, and we did. 
I believe that the Senate did its duty.  
Senator Watt said that he intends to propose an amendment but would prefer to move it in committee rather than here. 
I am of the opinion that nothing will come of the committee study. 
I do not want to prejudge what will happen there, but we can already see a trend developing of the members who are being considered for that committee not being in a mood to accept amendments. 
It may be unfair, but that is my perception.  
Would it not be wiser, therefore, for Senator Watt to move his amendments here? 
If he decides that he should do so, but the Speaker rules that, as Senator Watt has finished his speech, he is no longer entitled to do so, perhaps he could convince a senator who has yet to speak to move those amendments at second reading in order to dispose of them one way or the other. 
In that way, Senator Watt would have the opportunity to move them again in committee.  
They do not want us to tamper with what they have already decided.  
Honourable senators know my sensitivity to the first Canadians. 
We tend to forget about that, but I have not. 
I have always accommodated them. 
I changed my approach to Canada when I started to meet people like Senator Watt and Senator Chalifoux and all these people throughout Canada.  
I am satisfied with the answer. 
I think sometimes we are afraid to say we are satisfied with the answers given, but I am very satisfied.  
It so happens that I sat on a very touchy committee with some of the senators that I note will be sitting on this committee. 
Their sense of fairness and honesty was evident then. 
I see one in particular who sat on a special committee on veterans affairs. 
Of course, everything depends on whether this bill reaches committee, and it has not reached that stage yet.