Abortion is the ending of pregnancy by the removal or forcing out from the womb of a fetus or embryo before it is able to survive on its own. An abortion can occur spontaneously, in which case it is often called a miscarriage. It can also be purposely caused in which case it is known as an induced abortion. The term abortion most commonly refers to the induced abortion of a human pregnancy. The similar procedure after the fetus may be able to survive on its own is medically known as a late termination of pregnancy. There are two kinds of abortion in the U.S. " in-clinic abortion and the abortion pill. Abortions are very common. In fact, 3 out of 10 women in the U.S. have an abortion by the time they are 45 years old. If you are pregnant, you have options. If you are trying to decide if abortion is the right choice for you, you probably have many things to think about. Learning the facts about abortion may help you in making your decision. You may also want to learn more about parenting and adoption. If you are under 18, your state may require one or both of your parents to give permission for your abortion or be told of your decision prior to the abortion. However, in most states you can ask a judge to excuse you from these requirements. Learn more about parental consent for abortion. Only you can decide what is best for you. But we are here to help. A staff member at your local Planned Parenthood health center can discuss abortion and all of your options with you and help you find the services you need. The debate over whether or not abortion should be a legal option continues to divide Americans. The abortion debate is the ongoing controversy surrounding the moral and legal status of abortion. The two main groups involved in the abortion debate are the self-described "pro-choice" movement (emphasizing the right of women to choose whether to abort a pregnancy or to grow it to term) and the self-described "pro-life" movement (emphasizing the right of the embryo or fetus to gestate and be born). Both of these ascriptions are considered loaded terms in mainstream media where terms such as "abortion rights" or "anti-abortion" are generally preferred. Each movement has, with varying results, sought to influence public opinion and to attain legal support for its position, with small numbers of anti-abortion advocates sometimes using violence. I believe a women should be able to decide, without consequences, whether to end the life of their unborn child or proceed with motherhood.
Well we can discuss the issues of abortions and whether women have the right to do so without consequences for days. I still feel that we should have the right to decide with out consequences. We believe there are many reasons to abort such as fear of having or raising a child, rape, or not having enough money. But whatever the situation, there is never an acceptable reason to get an abortion according to some. Some important reasons why women should not abort have to do with human values, religious values, and values of conscience. Manu feel as though women should not have an abortion is related to basic human values. Women need to think about their unborn babies who are not responsible for this situation. These unborn babies should have the privilege to live and grow into a normal person. Others may feel as though women should not abort has to do with religious values. In almost all religions, a woman is not permitted to have an abortion, but under whose authority to tell her not to. I not religious, but he will forgive those who ask for his repentance. I mean its enough to have to go through the procedure in itself, but the emotional and psychological effects is just has hard. The emotional side effects of an abortion will vary from one woman to another. Some women report a sense of relief after having an abortion. The reasons for relief also vary from woman to woman. Emotional and psychological effects are more common than physical side effects and can range from mild regret to more serious complications like depression. It is important to discuss these risks with a trained professional who can address your questions and concerns. Abortion and emotional side effect are just as real as physical side effects.