I have a supplementary question for the Leader of the Government in the Senate on the same topic.  
The view of the Farm Credit Corporation before the government announcement was that if they were to do anything for farmers in crisis, they would be prejudicing those who had overcome their own crises. 
They were trying to say that they were being even-handed in the situation. 
When I contacted the director of the corporation, I pointed out to him that everyone has a different crisis because of their own family structure and their own business structure.  
It is increasingly important that the government stress to the Farm Credit Corporation that it is a changed situation in that there is at least some assured payment forthcoming. 
Previously, the corporation was telling farmers that they had to inform the corporation that they had resources forthcoming. 
It was taking 18 months to fill out the forms.  
Is there some assurance that the government has met with officials of the Farm Credit Corporation to ensure that they are changing their policies to take into account these payments?  
Last night I took the kind and generous time of the Senate to talk about the human rights issue in China. 
Several individuals in Canada, including Mr. Cotler of the other place and Mr. Warren Allmand of the International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development in Montreal, have pointed out that the record of the Chinese concerning religious intolerance has worsened. 
It is probably worse than it has been in 10 years. 
I do not presume to go over my speech again.  
It pleads with China to look again at this issue.  
The minister used the term "like-minded countries" in his response. 
Traditionally, like-minded countries included Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands and, perhaps, the United Kingdom and Australia. 
What happened previously on the Chinese resolution was that the European Community appeared to want to speak with one voice. 
Certain countries within the European Community refused to have this issue brought forward because they thought their trade would be jeopardized. 
Unfortunately, Canada fell into that category the last time, and the resolution did not proceed.  
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate assure us that when we refer to like-minded countries, we are referring to countries that are concerned about human rights issues and trade issues equally? 
If the U.S. resolution does not sit well with like-minded countries or with the Government of Canada, would the government consider putting forward its own facilitating resolution?