My question is to the Honourable Senator Austin, who is the Chair of the Senate Aboriginal Peoples Committee.  
Obviously, the honourable senator has conferred with someone in the last 24 hours. 
The question that I asked yesterday - and I may have missed the answer in his delivery - was whether the government would be prepared to fund the Gitxsan and the Gitanyow in their legal pursuit if this bill passes as it is. 
Obviously, they will be forced into litigation to resolve their overlap situation on the lands that have been impacted by the signing and the ratification of the Nisga'a agreement. 
Does the honourable senator have an answer to that question? 
You are wrong there.
I am doing what you did yesterday.
I am really at a loss for words. 
I never said anything in this place about conflict. 
I did, however, in committee. 
I asked Mr. Molloy if he did not think he was in conflict. 
Yesterday, however, I never uttered a word in this chamber in regard to that issue. 
I believe it was Senator Andreychuk who brought this fact forward yesterday in her questioning.  
If the Honourable Senator Austin is on top of this file, how can he be confused? 
He is citing me for this, that and the other thing. 
Yesterday, I never said a blessed thing about Tom Molloy or the conflict. 
I did in committee, but I did not in this chamber. 
Does the honourable senator agree?  
I merely wish to set the record straight, honourable senators. 
Senator Austin says I am questioning the methodology. 
I am only trying to represent the case of the Gitanyow and the Gitxsan. 
I am not prefabricating anything. 
If my interpretation of Justice Williamson in the Luuxhon case is wrong, I can accept that, but I do not think that I am wrong in my reading of this particular judgment.  
Honourable senators, there is no way in the world that I am trying to represent anything partisan. 
My party voted in favour of this bill in the House of Commons. 
What is wrong with Senator Austin? 
Is he asleep at the switch?  
I will do what I think is right for aboriginal people and for British Columbians. 
I will not be guided or rushed by Senator Austin or anyone else in this country. 
This is not a Liberal or a Conservative issue. 
As the honourable senator said, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney came forward with a suggestion on self-government. 
Let's get the record straight and quit trying to play a game that forces us into a partisan situation on an issue that should remain way above that.  
I think the government did not allow the Gitanyow and the Gitxsan to put their case forward regarding this land settlement, and I will tell you why. 
Anyone who is prepared to accept the decision of an arbitrator, if they are prepared to put their case before a board of arbitration, must think they have a case. 
Obviously the Gitxsan and Gitanyow did not feel they were treated fairly in that case.  
It is not a question of the Nisga'a. 
However, they do not deserve this partisan rhetoric that you are bantering about here today.  
In regard to this adversarial role, I am simply telling this place what I have been told. 
There has been conflict in this region of B.C. before, as those of us who have taken the time to go up there and actually talk to the people on the ground know. 
Had the committee gone up there and listened to the people in some of these places, it might have had a different view as well.  
Honourable senators, it is my right to rise in the chamber for comments and questions, and I want to be certain of something. 
Does Senator Austin agree that he was wrong and that I never mentioned this yesterday in the Senate in regards to Tom Molloy?