Since the affirmative has not defined gun control, I would like to define it. gun control- "government regulation of the sale and ownership of firearms." Since the negation did not specify any level or type of gun control, he is forced to defend ALL forms of gun control. Contention 1: Enemy Terrorists Firstly, it is preposterous that we sell guns to people who openly are going to use it to kill us. In the world of the negation (no gun control whatsoever) , we can sell guns to enemies of the country that we know will do harm with it. Also, the CIA came up with a reports saying that even arming allied terrorist RARELY EVER works, so why should we arm or enemies. Contention 2: Mentally Ill By definition, the con is defending the right of the mentally ill to have guns. The mentally ill cannot be trusted with guns because they are incapable of handling them and may have outbursts. Adam Lanza, the man who perpetrated the Sandy Hook massacre was mentally ill. In fact, the NYTimes reports that Lanza's mental illness went largely untreated before the shooting. There is no reason to support giving guns to the mentally ill. Contention 3: Guns that explode and kill the carrier (without warning or prior knowledge of the fact while buying the firearm) By definition, the con is defending the sale of these as well. If hypothetically these existed, the con would have to defend why we should sell them. The reason to regulate (ban) the sale of these is obvious: they are literally murdering and deceiving the user. Contention 4: Children/Babies How can you trust children/babies with guns. One could accidentally fire one and kill somebody. Contention 5: Children/Babies selling firearms Technically not allowing children to sell firearms is a method of regulating the sale of firearms. Is the con defending child labor. And is he also suggesting that a 1/2 month old can handle and sell guns. Refutations: "I believe that the people have the right to own guns" Gun control isn't necessarily gun banning. For example, technically, requiring that all guns have a yellow mark on them is a form of gun control. And we aren't excluding anybody. But, since babies are people, the negation is technically supporting that babies should have the right to handle guns. See contention 4 for why that is bad. "if we have gun control it will open an opportunity for black market" Not really unless guns are banned or heavily regulated, which not all forms of gun control are. "we won't be able to defend ourselves against criminals" Yes we can. We have our guns. Gun control doesn't necessitate banning. All in all, in order for con to win, he has to show why all forms of gun control possible are bad