Let me first deal with the questions of repealability and amendability of Bill C-9. 
Honourable Senator Kinsella raised a question that lead to an intriguing set of pathways.  
As I said previously, the Nisga'a Final Agreement is a treaty that sets out what all three parties have agreed should be Nisga'a rights.  
The same parties that made the agreement could, in future, decide to change the agreement. 
No party has the authority to change the agreement unilaterally. 
This does not mean that the treaty rights are absolute or entrenched in the Constitution. 
The courts have said that treaty rights are not absolute. 
The courts have accepted that governments may have compelling and substantial legislative objectives that would justify infringement of the terms of a treaty. 
I wish to emphasize that there is no standard designed to prevent any future Parliament from acting. 
Rather, the courts require that governments demonstrate justification for any actions inconsistent with the terms of the treaty.  
The courts have said that the honour of the Crown is always at stake when the Crown deals with aboriginal peoples, so it should hardly be surprising that the courts would require justification for interference with the agreed upon terms of a treaty. 
Put a different way, should a future Parliament be able to unilaterally interfere with treaty rights without any justification? 
If the right is sufficiently important to qualify as a treaty right, it would seem sensible to protect that right by requiring that any future interference be justified. 
Again, this is a protection the courts have established for treaty rights. 
It does not make those rights absolute so that Parliament can never act again. 
That is the reason treaty rights are described as constitutionally protected rights rather than constitutionally entrenched rights.  
It is necessary to distinguish between alteration of the treaty rights and alteration of Bill C-9. 
It is conceivable that a future Parliament might want to amend or repeal some part of Bill C-9. 
If the proposed challenge to Bill C-9 would cause an infringement of the Nisga'a treaty, then the Nisga'a could challenge the legislation and call upon the government to justify the infringement of the Nisga'a treaty.  
Some have questioned whether Parliament's power is diminished in the particular case of the Nisga'a treaty because it includes self-government provisions. 
Will the courts jettison the above principles of treaty interpretation simply because this treaty includes self-government arrangements? 
I think not, particularly because the parties have made it clear in the terms of the treaty itself that they intend to include a treaty and land claims agreement within the meaning of sections 25 and 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982. 
Bill C-9 makes it clear that this is Parliament's intention in giving effect to the treaty.  
Some argue that by providing, in some cases, for Nisga'a laws to prevail over federal and provincial laws, the parties have expressly agreed never to allow a future Parliament to prevail over the terms of the treaty. 
However, the parties have set out in the treaty the rules for the relationship of laws they wish to have the courts apply in ordinary situations.  
Some issues, such as public order, peace, and safety are so important to government that federal and provincial laws should prevail. 
Other subjects, such as Nisga'a culture and Nisga'a lands, are considered so important to the Nisga'a that the federal and provincial governments accept that ordinarily the court should allow Nisga'a laws to prevail.