I am proud to stand on behalf of my colleague from Winnipeg Centre who presented this very important private member's bill, Bill C-238, which would repeal section 13(5) of the Canada Post Act which restricts contractors from being treated as employees.  
The reason the hon. member for Winnipeg Centre presented this bill was not only to represent the 5,000 people who do a superb job in delivering Canada Post's mail from coast to coast to coast in the very rural and very far-reaching areas of this country, it was also to correct a historical wrong.  
Unfortunately these people have been restricted from obtaining any kind of furtherance in economic value by the restrictions which the Canada Post Act places upon them. 
They are not, in any way, shape or form, considered under the Canada Labour Code. 
Rural route couriers form one of the major sectors which is excluded from the Canada Labour Code strictly for economic reasons.  
Maybe at one time in our history those economic reasons may appear valid, but they are no longer valid. 
I will read a subsection which asks why subsection 13(5) denies RRMCs, rural route mail couriers, their basic rights. 
Andre Ouellet outlined in 1980 when he was postmaster general that there were largely financial reasons for including subsection 13(5) which prohibits collective bargaining. 
He also said that costs would escalate. 
When they have a contract with Canada Post they are restricted from working anywhere else. 
Part of the contract is that they can only do that and nothing else. 
It restricts them in terms of their economic lives.  
It is unfortunate that the member for Saanich-Gulf Islands and his party are not supporting this initiative. 
If he truly cared about the 5,000 RRMCs across the country he would go to the back lobby and instruct his party that this is actually a very good initiative. 
Perhaps he is afraid that these 5,000 people, heaven forbid, may want to organize themselves into a union.  
That is not what we are pressing for. 
We are saying that if those people desire to organize, if they choose to organize, which they already are doing right now in terms of a quasi-group, an association to press issues forward through all members of parliament, they should have the right to do so. 
We live in a democracy. 
The member for Saanich-Gulf Islands, whom I respect tremendously as a friend, should know that one of the key fundamentals of democracy is that workers have the right to organize. 
Whether or not he agrees with union principles is not the question. 
They should have the right to organize, and that is part of what this private member's bill will enable them to do if they so desire. 
The key point is for them to bargain collectively with the employer, which in this case is Canada Post, a crown corporation of the Government of Canada.  
Canada Post in past years has made a tremendous amount of money in profit. 
A lot of it came from rural route mail couriers across the country. 
Pretty soon when the contracts come up Canada Post will contact the current holders of contracts, for example in Jeddore and Sheet Harbour in my riding or in areas outside Prince Rupert, in Yukon and in other areas of northern Manitoba or wherever, to say that the contract bidding time has come up and it expects them to lower their bid in the event they wish to be successful in furthering the contract.