This past weekend, we saw the World Curling Championship Tournament held in Glasgow, Scotland. 
On Sunday, April 9, 2000, Canada's entry into the men's challenge was led by Greg McAulay's Royal City Curling Club from New Westminster. 
The foursome was comprised of Greg McAulay, skip; Brent Pierce, third; Bryan Miki, second; Jody Sveistrup, lead; and Darin Fenton, fifth. 
McAulay's team captured the men's world curling title with a smashing win over Sweden after nine ends. 
This was Canada's twenty-sixth senior men's title since competition began in 1959.  
The men's victory completed a gold medal sweep for Canada after Kelley Law of Richmond, B.C., claimed the women's title Saturday with a thrilling 7-6 victory over Switzerland. 
The women's team, representing the Richmond Winter Curling Club, was comprised of Kelley Law, skip; Julie Skinner, third; Georgina Wheatcroft, second; Diane Nelson, lead; and Cheryl Noble, fifth.  
Law clinched the global crown with the final rock of the tenth end and earned Canada its eleventh world women's curling crown. 
McAulay became the third B.C. skip to win a world title this year.  
The first skip to win a world title this year was Brad Kuhn, of Vernon, B.C., who won the world junior men's title on March 26, 2000, at the Grundel Arena in Geising, Germany. 
Team British Columbia was from the Kelowna Curling Club.  
For the tenth time since the competition began in 1975, and for the third year in a row, Canada struck gold at the men's World Junior Curling Championship.  
It cannot get much better than this. 
Greg McAulay's victory marks the ninth time Canada has won both the men's and women's senior titles in the same year. 
No other country has ever accomplished this feat.  
Honourable senators, British Columbians roared out of the hack, cleaned the house in Scotland, swept themselves to victory and slid out with the crowns, back to the great province of British Columbia.  
I should like to ask several questions of Senator Christensen, if I may. 
I listened carefully and wish to compliment her on her speech.  
The honourable senator noted that a negotiation is the most favourable way to proceed and that litigation is too costly. 
Senator Christensen was in committee with us and did an excellent job. 
She heard the presentations made by the Gitanyow and the Gitxsan when they stated that they would be forced into this costly litigation. 
When the minister was asked if he would commit funds for that litigation, he would make no commitment. 
Where will these poor people get the money for litigation?  
Further, the minister never said that he would not enter into immediate, serious negotiations. 
However, he also never said that he would, from what I recollect.  
The honourable senator has been exposed to a considerable number of these types of negotiations and agreements in the Yukon. 
Does she not find it offensive that the negotiators would have granted five fee simple sites in 85 per cent of the land that is disputed by the Gitanyow as being theirs?  
I concur with the remainder of my honourable friend's speech. 
The Nisga'a should have an agreement and they deserve an agreement. 
We must move forward with these things. 
However, I and several people with whom I have spoken consider this overlap situation to be a total affront.  
All are in the management area, not on the core lands. 
Does the honourable senator not find it offensive that the negotiators would grant these fee simple sites and rub them into the face of the Gitanyow?