I have a question for the Leader of the Government in the Senate.  
Canada has assumed, for the month of April, the presidency of the United Nations Security Council, which is both an honour and an obligation for our country. 
One of the biggest issues dividing the UN Security Council now is the question of the maintenance of sanctions against Iraq. 
As a result of sanctions for the better part of a decade, approximately 500.000 children have died. 
This week, Foreign Affairs Minister Axworthy said that Canada would sponsor a debate in the UN Security Council on this very issue.  
Can the minister tell us what the position of Canada is with respect to the maintenance of sanctions? 
Has the time come to end these sanctions that are having such a terrible effect on innocent people, especially children, in Iraq? 
Can this be done in a way that will preserve the UN's right to examination the question of disarmament in Iraq?  
I thank the minister for that answer. 
I hope that he will carry forward to the Foreign Affairs Minister the representations from at least myself and probably many others in the Senate - although I am speaking only for myself - that the time has come to lift those sanctions against Iraq.  
This week, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, published a remarkable report entitled "We the Peoples", referring to the first words of the UN Charter. 
This report sets out a course for the United Nations for the millennium and will be at the heart of the summit of world leaders at the United Nations in September. 
This will be the largest meeting of world leaders ever. 
In the report, the Secretary-General outlines, among other goals, the strengthening of the capacity of the UN to conduct peace operations and the targeting of sanctions against delinquent rulers rather than innocent populations.  
Could the minister find a way for this report to be made available to all members of this Parliament, and by that I mean all members of the House of Commons and all members of the Senate? 
It is such a remarkable and forward-minded report.
My question is for the Secretary of State for Latin America and Africa.  
Recently at a summit meeting in Washington, D.C. on the topic of war against illegal drugs, it was noted that in Canada we lose two people every three days to drug overdoses. 
What is the government doing with its international counterparts to address this serious situation which threatens the health of many young Canadians?
As we approach St. Patrick's Day it provides an opportunity to recognize the immense contribution of the Irish community in Canada.  
Ted McConnell, an Irish immigrant, is being honoured this year for his significant contribution to Irish-Canadian relations and his lifelong commitment to peace in Northern Ireland.  
Ted was selected as this year's grand marshal for the St. Patrick's Day parade and will be honoured at the Grand Marshal's Ball on March 11 in Toronto.  
Ted was born in Belfast in 1931 and immigrated to Canada in 1957. 
Throughout his successful career, Ted has devoted himself to enhancing Canada's relationship with his homeland.  
In recognition of his efforts, Ted was selected the first honorary consul general of Ireland to Canada in 1997. 
He is currently Canada's representative on the International Fund for Ireland. 
He is also on the board of the Ireland Fund of Canada, the Canada-Ireland Chamber of Commerce and the School of Celtic Studies at St. Michael's College.  
Ted was honoured in 1991 with the prestigious Order of the British Empire.  
On behalf of parliament, I would like to pay tribute to this outstanding individual and to say thank you for bringing Canada and Ireland closer together.