This inquiry stands in the name of my colleague and friend Senator Poulin. 
If no one speaks to it today, it will fall from the Order Paper, something we do not want to happen.  
First, I wish to draw the attention of honourable senators to the speech the Honourable Senator Rivest delivered earlier today. 
I hope all honourable senators will read his speech because he spoke very rapidly when delivering it. 
I have a great deal of respect for the interpreters who struggled to follow what he said. 
Although it was delivered rapidly, it is a speech that must be read. 
I am not saying that I am in favour or against the bill to which he spoke. 
As I say, I hope that everyone will take the time to read the speech of Senator Rivest. 
After all, all these speeches are related in one way or another to the motion to which I am about to address.  
It is inconceivable to me as a "Canadien francais" - I hope they do not translate that as "French Canadian" - that the capital of my country, Canada, would be unilingual English.  
I see Senator Finestone, who travels internationally and must defend Canada's position. 
She was elected recently to the executive of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 
Senator Finestone and I often disagree, but I admire her because she is a great liberal.  
It would totally defeat the principles of one of the greatest champions of "les droits Canadien francais Acadien," the Honourable Senator Robichaud. 
I campaigned for him in 1960. 
He may not even remember. 
It would be inconceivable for him - and I can see by his motions that he agrees - that the capital of Canada would not be bilingual.  
I know that some people of Ottawa do not like "la langue francaise" or "les Canadiens francais" or "la religion catholique," but they must realize that they live in the capital of Canada. 
It is not parochial. 
If Canada is to be Canada as we want Canada to be Canada, we must respect the specificities, one of which is highly augmented by Senator Robichaud. 
That specificity is augmented by our Speaker pro tempore who is from New Brunswick and is doing a fabulous job, by Senator Bacon, Senator Rivest, Senator Maheu and Senator Corbin. 
This is Canada at its best.  
I look at the diversity of Canada. 
We must stop going around the world, as some of us will do, if we are not able when we come back to convince each other that at least Ottawa should be a bilingual capital. 
That does not mean everyone must speak to everyone else in a language they do not want to speak.  
Honourable senators know where I stand. 
I saved the day for the Honourable Senator Poulin. 
With her permission, I wish to adjourn the debate in the name of Senator Carstairs. 
That had been agreed to with Senator Poulin earlier.