With respect to the incidents involving death threats to certain prominent officials, I can only indicate that all due precautions were taken. 
Having in a past life been the subject of similar types of threats, probably the less publicity that one receives, the better off one is.  
With respect to the role of the Serbian forces, I am unaware of recent developments with respect to the position of the Department of National Defence regarding that matter. 
However, I can assure the honourable senator that any participation by Serbian forces will be very limited, very specific, and highly monitored. 
I will certainly attempt to get the honourable senator as specific a response as possible. 
Obviously, there may be qualifications with respect to what type of role the Serbian forces will play, but I will seek the answer and bring it to him, perhaps as early as tomorrow.
I do not know how widespread the practice is that the honourable senator describes and whether it extends across one or more provinces. 
Nevertheless, one would have to believe that, unless the banks and financial institutions intend to get into the farming business in a big way, they would take a more long-term view. 
As the honourable senator has pointed out, the assistance is designed to allow farmers to put crops into the ground, and that when they reap the benefit of their labours over this summer and fall, they will be in a far better possession to deal with their financial institution.  
The honourable senator makes a telling point. 
I will undertake to raise his inquiries specifically with the Minister of Agriculture. 
I will attempt to find out how widespread this practice is, whether it is just one financial institution and a handful of farmers, or whether it is a general policy that has been decided upon. 
On the part of the financial institutions, however, that practice would be very short-sighted.
I understand the nature of the honourable senator's concern. 
I will raise it with the Minister of Agriculture, as I have indicated.  
I believe all senators would hope that the financial institutions will understand the nature of the situation and come to the table with help and consideration for precisely the circumstances that the farmers across Western Canada find themselves in. 
In addition to that general statement, let me also assure the honourable senator that I will raise his concerns with the Minister of Agriculture.  
My honourable friend is correct in saying that the circumstances have changed for farmers who may now be in that situation. 
Specifically, they have changed because governments have taken action to allow farmers to get this year's crop in the ground. 
That will surely have a dramatic effect on their credit situation.  
I take these questions seriously. 
I will raise this issue with the Minister of Agriculture to determine how widespread the practices are and to find out to what extent the minister is aware of them and what action he is taking.