It is a pleasure to speak in favour of Bill C-238 which has been presented to the House by the member for Winnipeg Centre. 
In many ways it is a telling piece of legislation.  
Increasingly the government tends to cater toward urban Canada. 
People from the regions of the country, whether they are in my region in the east, Saskatchewan or the north, see that there are different standards and different rights for people in different parts of the country.  
This legislation deals directly with a vital service to rural Canada, the delivery of mail to people in rural parts of the country.  
I was shocked and did not know until I read this legislation that rural route mail carriers are denied fundamental rights that are guaranteed to many other Canadians particularly in urban centres. 
We have to ask why. 
We know why the Liberal government justified it almost 20 years ago when they were exempted. 
But we have to ask why today are 5.000 people denied the right to collective bargaining?  
We are in a new millennium. 
We heard and lived with the hype leading up to new year's eve about how this is a new century. 
Surely we do not have to repeat the same mistakes of the last century. 
Surely there should be the right to collective bargaining, the right for workers to come together and say that they collectively want to ensure that they have a better standard of living. 
Surely we do not have to go back to 1920 or 1930.  
Those workers, as has already been stated, do some of the most difficult work. 
I know because I represent an area that has rural route mail service. 
I can talk about the northern part of Cape Breton, Inverness and Victoria counties. 
The rural route mail carriers are vital especially to seniors. 
For those people the rural route mail carriers represent a vital link.  
They do the same kind of work so it cannot be justified on that ground. 
What do they face because they do not have the same rights?  
Their employment can be terminated on 90 days notice. 
Surely in this day and age 5.000 Canadian workers who are told that they have to submit bids in a lower tendering process, have the right to come together and say We would like to organize so we can bargain with the employer and we will not be constantly under the gun or constantly having to downgrade our standard of living. 
Today if they were to say they do not like the conditions, they could be terminated on 90 days notice.