Thank you to both the audience and my opponent for yet another debate on abortion. The resolution is simply "Abortion" and my opponent has stated that he supports the affirmative. I shall then argue against that case. To begin, I submit the definition of Abortion by Medicine.net Medical Dictionary: Abortion: In medicine, an abortion is the premature exit of the products of conception (the fetus, fetal membranes, and placenta) from the uterus. It is the loss of a pregnancy and does not refer to why that pregnancy was lost. In addition, here is the wikipedia article in which the introduction defines abortion in the same manner: Since my opponent has used his first round to merely ask for my opening statement and did not clarify the resolution or offer any sort of framing, I will assume that my opponent is trying to affirm "abortion" in general. I start by arguing that there are many forms of abortion that should be prevented on moral grounds. 1. Partial Birth Abortions In which the fetus, nearly fully formed, is destroyed during induced labor. At this point in time, the mother might as well wait until full term and give it up for adoption as the already blurry line of morality in abortion becomes even blurrier. 2. Spontaneous Abortions In which a woman with an implanted fetus loses the fetus accidentally, commonly known as a miscarriage. This should be avoided because for the most part, women who miscarry actually wanted the child. 3. Abortions inflicted on unwilling people There is something inherently immoral in the act of walking up to a pregnant woman and kicking in her stomach such that she miscarries. Though this is a form of abortion, I argue that it should in no way be supported. 4. Dangerous abortions I am against many forms of abortion for health reasons. The use of coat hangers to stimulate an abortion, for example. Or throwing oneself off a flight of stairs. Or going to a back-alley abortionist that doubles as a tattoo parlor. These are all very dangerous ways of abortion. I look forward to my opponent's rebuttal. Thank you.