I consider abortion to be one of the most important issues facing our world today. The reason being is because abortion either is the legalized killing of innocent human beings or abortion is not the killing of a human being. There is no in-between. I will stand against abortion in every case with one exception. That one exception is when the mother is guaranteed to die during child birth or if both the fetus and the mother will die during child birth.
I argue that abortion is the killing of an innocent human being, the right to life is an inalienable right given to every innocent human being, therefore, abortion, as the direct result of the killing of an innocent human child, violates the inalienable right to life. Thus, abortion is wrong.
There are no restrictions to this debate. There is no formal layout other than that my opponent should provide a retort to my main argument in the first round. Feel free to debate however you so choose as long as it remains respectful and courteous.
What would you define "body autonomy" in relation to abortion as being? I have seen a wide variety of perspectives on the word "autonomy."
Well I am not going to forfeit any rounds. I don't know why you would think that I would not respond when the whole point of debate.com is to debate... Debating doesn't mean forfeiting a bunch of rounds. Rather, it is an intellectual, two way discussion. But that is neither here nor there...
Anyway, since you have done nothing to refute that the fetus is a living human being, then my claims stand firm. In fact, in order for you to say an interloper could be a "person or human" inside a woman you must inherently mean a fetus is a person or a human. That is the only circumstance where a person could act as an interloper in another person's body. So I do not think the issue then is whether or not the fetus is a human being (since by deduction you would have to agree the fetus is), rather, the issue is whether the fetus has a right to remain in the woman or not.
Ok, so here is where your argument that the fetus can be killed for "trespassing" falls apart. Let us say you are being robbed. The robber is 30 years old. However, he is holding his year old child. Certainly you have the right to defend yourself against the 30 year old robber for trespassing. In some states you have the right to defend your ground by even shooting and killing him. However, do you have the right to kill the innocent, year old child in the robbers hands? The baby technically is trespassing. BY your argument, it would justifiable to kill the baby as well. However, since the child is entirely innocent, you cannot kill the child even under the circumstance that the child is trespassing. The same argument then applies for the fetus. The fetus is entirely innocent and therefore cannot be killed for what you call "trespassing." And if you would be willing to say that the death of the fetus is warranted for trespassing, then you also have to admit the one year old's death could be warranted just for trespassing.
Now let us examine whether the chid in a womb even is trespassing. The only circumstance where I could remotely see this argument applying is under the circumstance of rape. However, since the child is still entirely innocent, the child cannot be killed. However, by committing an act of consensual sex, the person is saying they are open to reproduction (since thats what sex is.) and therefore must be open to the conception of a child. People always claim that just by having sex does not mean you are also consenting to pregnancy. That is a terribly false argument. Look at any condom package. No condom will guarantee 100% protection because no sex is entirely "safe." Birth control doesn't even work 100% of the time. By engaging in any consensual sex, there will always be the chance a child could be conceived. Someone who says "just because i had sex does not mean I also consented to the pregnancy." is forfeiting their responsibility. That is exactly like saying "just because I gambled does not mean I consented to losing all my money." Or "Just because I consented to driving over the speed limit does not mean I consented to the ticket I received." There is a clear lack of responsibility for personal actions when someone says they weren't consenting that the woman could become pregnant. And because any act of consensual sex is inherently then consenting to the conception of a child, (whether the people like it or not). Therefore the child was given consent to be in the womb.
In fact, isn't the usage of a condom or birth control in itself revealing that there is an acceptance that the woman might become pregnant? If the point of a condom is to prevent pregnancy, then the person must know the sex leads to a pregnancy since they are trying to stop that. And since no condom is 100% guaranteed, then the person is consenting to even the 1% chance a child would be conceived. Therefore, the act of conception itself is consensual and the fetus is not trespassing.
You never have the right to kill an innocent human being. And since the fetus is a human being who is innocent, then you cannot kill the fetus on the grounds that it is "unwelcome."
Ok well good. So now it has been explicitly stated by myself and my opponent that the fetus is a living human being. Keep this in mind.
You really have failed to refute anything I have said. You make statements such as "If the child refuses to leave my body, I have a right to kill it," without supporting your claims in any way. Your sentences do not explain anything. Rather, they state insubstantial claims. So now, since you have not supported your own sentences, I will refute them.
"If the child refuses to leave my body, I have a right to kill it.." Where does anything suggest that you have the right to kill an innocent human being, who is not yet conscious, just for the location where they live? The body is as much as a physical location as a house. Obviously there are differences, but living in a house or living inside a body can be equated in the grounds that they are both physical locations. You wouldn't kill a year old child who wanders into your room if they refuse to leave. You wouldn't kill an unconscious adult for refusing to leave your house because they have no culpability for their actions. Both would be murder. Where you live does not determine whether you live. The fetus (a living human being) has no culpability and therefore is innocent. Because the child is innocent, and where you live does not determine whether you live, then the child has the right to life. Most importantly, if you agree there are certain rights to your own body then you must agree on other rights, chiefly the right to life. Since the right to life is the right from which all other rights stem, then you have to protect the right to life in this situation. Because the right to life trumps the right to control your own body, and because there are two separate individuals involved in abortion, and both have the ultimate right to life, then the child cannot be killed. Are you really ok with eliminating the chief right from which all other rights stem aka the right to life?
Since every single human being has the right to life, and you admit the fetus is a human being, then you cannot justify killing the innocent human being inside the mother. Whether you like it or not, if you support the right to life, then you inherently have to be opposed to abortion.
"The Child is in violation of the wishes to leave my body"
Refer to above arguments.
"Not at all. Sex is not only for reproduction. Provide anything to back that."
First of all, I never said sex was ONLY for reproduction. I said all consensual sex inherently consents to reproduction. That is not the same thing as saying sex is only for reproduction. In fact, sex also brings the couple closer together by usage of hormones. Sex bonds the people consenting to it. But this is not the point. I am saying that if you have consensual sex, you are open to reproduction. Sexual intercourse is the act by which two beings of the opposite sex reproduce. Therefore, since sex is the means by which reproduction occurs, sexual intercourse will always mean that reproduction is possible. And because sex leads to reproduction, then by consenting to sex, you consent to the reproduction. Since those who participate in sexual intercourse are aware of the possibility of becoming pregnant, and they still consent to sex, then they are consenting to the sex which inherently, as part of its essence, possesses to possibility for pregnancy. They are consenting to the possibilities of reproducing aka conceiving a child.
"Good thing abortion is legal." So its a good thing to run away from our responsibilities by killing children? That child has every right to life that you and I have. Killing the fetus is equal to killing you or me since the fetus, you ,and I are human beings and all human beings are created equal. So it is a terrible thing that it is legal to brutally kill innocent babies who cannot defend themselves.
These arguments support the statements that sex consents to conception. You cannot run away from a responsibility to protect that child's life any more than a gambler can run away from his debt. People need to protect that inalienable right to life, not remove it.
"It will not leave my body voluntarily. It is violating my right to determine the use of my body."
How can you justifiably condemn a human being to death who had no choice to be in your body? How can you justifiably condemn an innocent human baby to death who cannot voluntarily make any conscious choices? How can you justifiably condemn an innocent human child to death for the actions of his or her parents in having sex? You would be condemning an innocent child to death for the actions of his or her parents. That is wrong. I will say this again:
If you support the right to "determine the use of my own body" then you are defending human rights. And if you defend human rights, then you must defend the principle human right from which all other human rights stem: The Right to Life. Since you must defend the Right to Life, and since you would support all human beings are created equal, then you would have to defend that all human beings have equal human rights such as the right to life. And because you openly admit a fetus is a living human being, then you have to support the child's inalienable right to life. Thus, abortion is wrong. Boom.
Never forget: "The right to swing my fist ends where another man's nose begins"

`