Body autonomy!
I will make it super easy for you, as I really thought you wouldn't return, and just forfeit. I am saying the body autonomy includes the right to kill an interloper within my body.
Yup, person, human, anything. If it is unwelcome within my body, I have the right to kill it! If I were in Flordia or Texas, many would hold rallys for me killing the trespasser in my body.
Right back to you.
Anyway, since you have done nothing to refute that the fetus is a living human being, then my claims stand firm.
Yup. A fetus is a living human being. I did not refute it because I have no argument with your point.
In fact, in order for you to say an interloper could be a "person or human" inside a woman you must inherently mean a fetus is a person or a human.
How many times will I have to say this, it is HUMAN!
That is the only circumstance where a person could act as an interloper in another person's body. So I do not think the issue then is whether or not the fetus is a human being (since by deduction you would have to agree the fetus is), rather, the issue is whether the fetus has a right to remain in the woman or not.
Now you are getting it.
Ok, so here is where your argument that the fetus can be killed for "trespassing" falls apart. Let us say you are being robbed. The robber is 30 years old. However, he is holding his year old child. Certainly you have the right to defend yourself against the 30 year old robber for trespassing. In some states you have the right to defend your ground by even shooting and killing him. However, do you have the right to kill the innocent, year old child in the robbers hands? The baby technically is trespassing. BY your argument, it would justifiable to kill the baby as well.
If the child refuses my demand to leave my body, I have a right to kill it.
However, since the child is entirely innocent, you cannot kill the child even under the circumstance that the child is trespassing.
The child is in violation of my wishes to leave my body.
The same argument then applies for the fetus. The fetus is entirely innocent and therefore cannot be killed for what you call "trespassing." And if you would be willing to say that the death of the fetus is warranted for trespassing, then you also have to admit the one year old's death could be warranted just for trespassing.
See above.
Now let us examine whether the chid in a womb even is trespassing. The only circumstance where I could remotely see this argument applying is under the circumstance of rape. However, since the child is still entirely innocent, the child cannot be killed. However, by committing an act of consensual sex, (not always) the person is saying they are open to reproduction (since thats what sex is.) and therefore must be open to the conception of a child.
Not at all. Sex is not only for reproduction. Provide anything to back that.
People always claim that just by having sex does not mean you are also consenting to pregnancy. That is a terribly false argument. Look at any condom package. No condom will guarantee 100% protection because no sex is entirely "safe." Birth control doesn't even work 100% of the time. By engaging in any consensual sex, there will always be the chance a child could be conceived.
Good thing abortion is legal.
Someone who says "just because i had sex does not mean I also consented to the pregnancy." is forfeiting their responsibility. That is exactly like saying "just because I gambled does not mean I consented to losing all my money." Or "Just because I consented to driving over the speed limit does not mean I consented to the ticket I received." There is a clear lack of responsibility for personal actions when someone says they weren't consenting that the woman could become pregnant. And because any act of consensual sex is inherently then consenting to the conception of a child, (whether the people like it or not). Therefore the child was given consent to be in the womb.
In fact, isn't the usage of a condom or birth control in itself revealing that there is an acceptance that the woman might become pregnant? If the point of a condom is to prevent pregnancy, then the person must know the sex leads to a pregnancy since they are trying to stop that. And since no condom is 100% guaranteed, then the person is consenting to even the 1% chance a child would be conceived. Therefore, the act of conception itself is consensual and the fetus is not trespassing.
You never have the right to kill an innocent human being. And since the fetus is a human being who is innocent, then you cannot kill the fetus on the grounds that it is "unwelcome."
It will not leave my body voluntarily. It is violating my right to determine the use of my own body.
Con is concerned that I have not refuted his points. While I have already, I also have no issue doing again, as there is little past my initial positive statement that needs to be made.
"If the child refuses to leave my body, I have a right to kill it.." Where does anything suggest that you have the right to kill an innocent human being, who is not yet conscious, just for the location where they live?
The right is within my right to control my own body. Within the US, the right of privacy: personal autonomy are within the constitution due process clause of the 14th Amendment and may include as parts of the right of privacy under the 1st, 4th, and 5th Amendments [1]. The decision that most closely recognizes this right provided by the 14th amendment is Row vs. Wade. So, to make it CRYSTAL clear. The US constitution is what suggest that I have this right.
The body is as much as a physical location as a house. Obviously there are differences, but living in a house or living inside a body can be equated in the grounds that they are both physical locations.
OK, so what?
You wouldn't kill a year old child who wanders into your room if they refuse to leave. You wouldn't kill an unconscious adult for refusing to leave your house because they have no culpability for their actions. Both would be murder.
Con simply wanders past the point over and over. If the child "wanders" INSIDE MY BODY, using my organs, refusing to leave. I have the right to expel it with any means necessary to insure MY right to body autonomy.
Where you live does not determine whether you live.
Sure it does. You have been attempting to bring in other analogs, but none are necessary. If a fetus/human/person/child is living within my body, using my organs, without my consent, it is my right to kill it.
The fetus (a living human being) has no culpability and therefore is innocent. Because the child is innocent, and where you live does not determine whether you live, then the child has the right to life. Most importantly, if you agree there are certain rights to your own body then you must agree on other rights, chiefly the right to life.
The right of the fetus/human/person/child do not negate MY right to my own body. If the fetus/human/person/child vacates on my command, or without the necessity of killing it, fine.
Since the right to life is the right from which all other rights stem, then you have to protect the right to life in this situation. Because the right to life trumps the right to control your own body, and because there are two separate individuals involved in abortion, and both have the ultimate right to life, then the child cannot be killed. Are you really ok with eliminating the chief right from which all other rights stem aka the right to life?
Since every single human being has the right to life, and you admit the fetus is a human being, then you cannot justify killing the innocent human being inside the mother. Whether you like it or not, if you support the right to life, then you inherently have to be opposed to abortion.
"The Child is in violation of the wishes to leave my body"
Refer to above arguments.
OK I have.
"Not at all. Sex is not only for reproduction. Provide anything to back that."
First of all, I never said sex was ONLY for reproduction. I said all consensual sex inherently consents to reproduction. That is not the same thing as saying sex is only for reproduction. In fact, sex also brings the couple closer together by usage of hormones. Sex bonds the people consenting to it. But this is not the point. I am saying that if you have consensual sex, you are open to reproduction. Sexual intercourse is the act by which two beings of the opposite (not always true) sex reproduce. Therefore, since sex is the means by which reproduction occurs, sexual intercourse will always mean that reproduction is possible. And because sex leads to reproduction, then by consenting to sex, you consent to the reproduction. Since those who participate in sexual intercourse are aware of the possibility of becoming pregnant, and they still consent to sex, then they are consenting to the sex which inherently, as part of its essence, possesses to possibility for pregnancy. They are consenting to the possibilities of reproducing aka conceiving a child.
Consent is NOT given. You have this wish for tacit consent the does not exist.
Noun 1. permission for something to happen or agreement to do something.
"no change may be made without the consent of all the partners"
"Good thing abortion is legal." So its a good thing to run away from our responsibilities by killing children?
It's a good thing that the government can't force me to use my body against my will.
That child has every right to life that you and I have. Killing the fetus is equal to killing you or me since the fetus, you ,and I are human beings and all human beings are created equal. So it is a terrible thing that it is legal to brutally kill innocent babies who cannot defend themselves.
Humans that are not violating my right to control my body are none of my concern. Those that are, I have a complete right over.
These arguments support the statements that sex consents to conception. You cannot run away from a responsibility to protect that child's life any more than a gambler can run away from his debt. People need to protect that inalienable right to life, not remove it.
I have a responsibility to control my own body. One of the responsibilities is control what can and can't use it for its own selfish reasons. 
"It will not leave my body voluntarily. It is violating my right to determine the use of my body."
How can you justifiably condemn a human being to death who had no choice to be in your body? How can you justifiably condemn an innocent human baby to death who cannot voluntarily make any conscious choices? How can you justifiably condemn an innocent human child to death for the actions of his or her parents in having sex? You would be condemning an innocent child to death for the actions of his or her parents. That is wrong. I will say this again:
OK. You think it's wrong. We knew that going in.
Let me start our concluding round with some points about this debate, my opposition janis1, and an off topic remark I made in round two. janis1, it is very common for debaters with little history (and no profile picture to abandon debates (especially debates with such broad resolutions). It, my remark, was honest, I didn't expect you to complete the debate - I was wrong. I thank you for the debate, and look forward to more interaction with you.
Since no rules were stated for the debate, and con has used his final round for rebuttals, I will not take advantage of the last round for counter rebuttals to be fair. I will rebut the one point that con believes I have not given enough attention to.
"If you support the right to "determine the use of my own body" then you are defending human rights. And if you defend human rights, then you must defend the principle human right from which all other human rights stem: The Right to Life. Since you must defend the Right to Life, and since you would support all human beings are created equal, then you would have to defend that all human beings have equal human rights such as the right to life. And because you openly admit a fetus is a living human being, then you have to support the child's inalienable right to life. Thus, abortion is wrong. Boom.
I am under no obligation to support what you tell me to support.
This concept of body autonomy is simple to understand, and tough to accept. The abortion debate runs on emotion, and I purposely avoided the emotional aspects for the sake of this debate. Con nearly did the impossible, run through a complete abortion debate without saying "murder". Accepting that a fetus/human/person/child can be killed for the potentially selfish motives of another is tough to come to grips with. The facts, harsh as it may sound is, all humans have the right to control their own body. If another being is using a part of your body, you have no obligation to permit it. The government cannot force you to use your own body against your will. The constitution of the United States agrees, the SCOTUS agrees, and consistently better than 50% of the population agrees with this.