I have a question for the Leader of the Government in the Senate.  
Canada has assumed, for the month of April, the presidency of the United Nations Security Council, which is both an honour and an obligation for our country. 
One of the biggest issues dividing the UN Security Council now is the question of the maintenance of sanctions against Iraq. 
As a result of sanctions for the better part of a decade, approximately 500.000 children have died. 
This week, Foreign Affairs Minister Axworthy said that Canada would sponsor a debate in the UN Security Council on this very issue.  
Can the minister tell us what the position of Canada is with respect to the maintenance of sanctions? 
Has the time come to end these sanctions that are having such a terrible effect on innocent people, especially children, in Iraq? 
Can this be done in a way that will preserve the UN's right to examination the question of disarmament in Iraq?  
I thank the minister for that answer. 
I hope that he will carry forward to the Foreign Affairs Minister the representations from at least myself and probably many others in the Senate - although I am speaking only for myself - that the time has come to lift those sanctions against Iraq.  
This week, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, published a remarkable report entitled "We the Peoples", referring to the first words of the UN Charter. 
This report sets out a course for the United Nations for the millennium and will be at the heart of the summit of world leaders at the United Nations in September. 
This will be the largest meeting of world leaders ever. 
In the report, the Secretary-General outlines, among other goals, the strengthening of the capacity of the UN to conduct peace operations and the targeting of sanctions against delinquent rulers rather than innocent populations.  
Could the minister find a way for this report to be made available to all members of this Parliament, and by that I mean all members of the House of Commons and all members of the Senate? 
It is such a remarkable and forward-minded report.